Scheduler: describe toolbar option (#7317)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: api-reference/10 UI Components/dxScheduler/7 Interfaces/dxSchedulerToolbarItem/dxSchedulerToolbarItem.md

---
id: dxSchedulerToolbarItem
module: ui/scheduler
export: ToolbarItem
type: dxToolbarItem | Object
inherits: dxToolbarItem
generateTypeLink: 
---
---
##### shortDescription

> Configures the items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configures toolbar items.
```

---
The toolbar can contain the following elements as items:

- **Predefined controls**       
Predefined controls appear on the toolbar depending on whether a specific {WidgetName} feature is enabled. The following table illustrates the dependency:

    <table class="dx-table">
        <tr>
            <th>Control Name</th>
            <th>Image</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><i>dateNavigator</i></td>
            <td><img src="/images/Scheduler/toolbar/date-navigator.png" alt="DevExtreme Scheduler toolbar date navigator" style="margin:1px; vertical-align:middle"/></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><i>viewSwitcher</i></td>
            <td><img src="/images/Scheduler/toolbar/view-switcher.png" alt="DevExtreme Scheduler toolbar view switcher" style="margin:1px; vertical-align:middle"/></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><i>today</i></td>
            <td><img src="/images/Scheduler/toolbar/today-button.png" alt="DevExtreme Scheduler toolbar today button" style="margin:1px; vertical-align:middle"/></td>
        </tr>
    </table>

>     If you need to customize a predefined control, add an object to the **items[]** array. This object must contain the control's [name](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dx{WidgetName}/Configuration/toolbar/items/#name) and [properties](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dx{WidgetName}/Configuration/toolbar/items/) that you want to customize. If a control does not need customization, simply include its name in the **toolbar**.**items[]** array. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you need to customize a predefined control, add an object to the **items[]** array. This object must contain the control's [name](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dx{WidgetName}/Configuration/toolbar/items/#name) and [properties](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dx{WidgetName}/Configuration/toolbar/items/) you want to customize. If a control does not need customization, you can include its name in the **toolbar**.**items[]** array. 
```

>     The date navigator has three components: left arrow (*'prev'*), right arrow (*'next'*), and date interval (*'dateInterval'*). You can customize component order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The date navigator has three components: left arrow (*'prev'*), right arrow (*'next'*), and date interval (*'dateInterval'*). You can customize the component order.
```

>     The date navigator has three components: left arrow (*'prev'*), right arrow (*'next'*), and date interval (*'dateInterval'*). Customize their arrangement as desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The date navigator has three components: left arrow (*'prev'*), right arrow (*'next'*), and date interval (*'dateInterval'*). You can customize component order.
```

>     The example below adds a date navigator, and customizes the Today button,:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The example below adds a date navigator, and customizes the Today button:
```

            <Dx{WidgetName} ... >
                <DxToolbar>
                    <DxItem name="dateNavigator" />
                    <DxItem
                        name="today"
                        locate-in-menu="auto"
                        location="after"
                    />
                </DxToolbar>
            </Dx{WidgetName}>
        </template>

    ##### React

        <!-- tab: App.js -->
        import {WidgetName}, { Toolbar, Item } from 'devextreme-react/{widget-name}';
        // ...
        function App() {
            return (
                <{WidgetName} ... >
                    <Toolbar>
                        <Item name="dateNavigator" />
                        <Item
                            name="today"
                            locateInMenu="auto"
                            location="after"
                        />
                    </Toolbar>
                </{WidgetName}>
            );
        }

    ---

    [important] The {WidgetName} does not display controls missing from the **items[]** array. Ensure that this array includes controls for all enabled features.

- **DevExtreme components**     

    ---
    ##### jQuery

>     You can use DevExtreme components as toolbar items. Set the [widget](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxScheduler/Configuration/toolbar/items/#widget) property to specify the component that you want to use and configure the component's [options](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxScheduler/Configuration/toolbar/items/#options):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You can use DevExtreme components as toolbar items. Set the [widget](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxScheduler/Configuration/toolbar/items/#widget) property to specify the component you want to use and configure the component's [options](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxScheduler/Configuration/toolbar/items/#options):
```

    The date navigator has three components: left arrow (*'prev'*), right arrow (*'next'*), and date interval (*'dateInterval'*). Customize their arrangement as desired.

    The example below adds a date navigator, and customizes the Today button,:

    ---
    ##### jQuery

        <!--tab: index.js-->
        $(function(){
            $("#{widgetName}Container").dx{WidgetName}({
                // ...
                toolbar: {
                    items: [ "dateNavigator", {
                        name: "today",      
                        locateInMenu: "auto",
                        location: "after"
                    }]  
                }
            });
        });

    ##### Angular

        <!-- tab: app.component.html -->
        <dx-{widget-name} ... >

>             <dxo-toolbar>

Reviewer 3: Let's use a new selectors here: 
```
    <dxo-scheduler-toolbar>
        <dxi-scheduler-toolbar-item name="dateNavigator"></dxi-scheduler-toolbar-item>
        <dxi-scheduler-toolbar-item 
                    name="today"
                    locateInMenu="auto"
                    location="after">
        </dxi-scheduler-toolbar-item>
    </dxo-scheduler-toolbar>
```

- **DevExtreme components**     

    ---
    ##### jQuery

    You can use DevExtreme components as toolbar items. Set the [widget](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxScheduler/Configuration/toolbar/items/#widget) property to specify the component that you want to use and configure the component's [options](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxScheduler/Configuration/toolbar/items/#options):

        <!--tab: index.js-->
        $(function(){
            $("#{widgetName}Container").dx{WidgetName}({
                // ...
                toolbar: {
                    items: [{
                        widget: "dxSelectBox",
                        options: {
                            // SelectBox properties are specified here
                        }
                    }]  
                }
            });
        });

    ##### Angular

    You can use DevExtreme components as toolbar items. Declare a `dxi-item` element to add a [supported component](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxScheduler/Configuration/toolbar/items/#widget):

        <!-- tab: app.component.html -->
        <dx-{widget-name} ... >

>             <dxo-toolbar>

Reviewer 3: the same: `dxo-scheduler-toolbar` and `dxi-scheduler-toolbar-item`
